ladies and gentlemen i'm going to read
you
an email and i'm going to tell you the
context of this email and they're going
to tell you why
i'm reading this email and you know
the kind of confrontation immortalized
in this email
and now share with you on youtube i
understand
that it's part of the reason why today i
have so few friends
from my time doing humanitarian work in
laos
and cambodia in the past i understand
this is part of the reason why i have so
few friends
keep me coming today who i met
in the hotels and hostels and guest
houses of thailand
sometimes when i was physically moving
in between doing humanitarian work and
research projects
in uh laos in cambodia you know i
understand that the side of my character
i'm sharing with you right now
it's part of the reason why i've had so
few friends in the vegan movement
well i have so few friends from my
involvement in buddhist scholarship
numerous other fields of endeavor but
but you know
that simplest test that simplest
question
we're all supposed to ask ourselves you
know how would i feel
if i were in your shoes how would i feel
if our positions were reversed in
conversations like this believe it or
not
i'm giving people exactly the kind of
advice i wish
i'd received myself i'm showing people
the kind of honesty and the kind of
concern that i wish others had shown for
me
earlier in my life or frankly still now
i wrote an email to a guy youtuber here
called
veganfoot soldier
he said to me that i've falsely accused
him
of not reading any books i'll go back
and tell you what i actually said
and uh i'm digging too deep into an
impromptu
unscripted almost entirely unedited
video
that he made so he's complaining that my
response to his video
is much too deep given that what he said
was impromptu
unscripted and i reply
you realize that every single video
you've seen on my channel
in the last four years was impromptu
unscripted and almost entirely unedited
a huge number are completely inundated
they're a single continuous take
including of course innumerable hours of
live streams
when i speak unscripted
i say things of real substance
because i'm a person of real substance
you aren't you're
fatuous you're comfortable
get uncomfortable do research
hold yourself to a higher standard you
know that phrase
journalistic integrity have something
better
have intellectual integrity
that is the end of the email and it's
quite possible that's the last time i'm
ever gonna hear from that guy
or it's possible it's the last time i'll
hear from him this year
it's possible here from again a few
years further on
uh down the road
now
i had another conversation with someone
today a vegan activist who has a
a youtube channel and it was a much more
lighthearted and collegial
conversation than this and it's possible
that woman i had that conversation with
that she will be a friend of mine
five years from now or 10 years it's
possible that's going to flow along
uh in a relatively soluble and
cooperative way
but speaking of cooperation i said to
her because
this particular youtuber has gotten
involved in the
political scene relatively recently
compared to himself i said you know
there was a time
when there was a much more collegial and
cooperative attitude
here on youtube there was a time
when people were just having so much fun
coming on camera
and sharing their lives that they felt
as if
if we all just kept on having fun
on youtube together sooner or later we
changed the world
and inevitably here we are five years
later that optimism has
has disappeared from the movement but
you know
that's all i said in that in that
comment there
but if you think about it on the
individual scale
and your relationship to your own
parents your own family and maybe people
you've known since high school or
something
you know it may sound ridiculous to say
that
but that's exactly what you're doing on
youtube right
like you're able to turn to your own
parents and say look
it's not just that i'm vegan right i
have all these colleagues i have all
these friends i have all these
fans i have all these supporters right
and look look at what a great time
we're all having the the very thing that
has
abnormalized you within your family the
very thing that's made you feel like a
reject
maybe within a circle of friends you've
known since high school or some other
community group like this
you know now instead it's a point of
pride now instead it's something that's
made you famous
even if that fame is on the smallest
scale of just having a few hundred or a
few thousand fans
on youtube on social media i mean i i
feel the pathos in that as well as the
egomania of people coming on and having
a great time on youtube
and then feeling as if
maybe maybe finally my mom
is gonna become vegan right it was
different
before when she saw me as the reject in
the family
the person showing up for thanksgiving
dinner or christmas dinner or
whatever kind of dinner you have in your
culture kwanzaa
you know it was different when i was uh
showing up at some occasion i was the
one person causing a problem
for everyone else in the family and they
regarded that negatively and maybe it
was different when in the past
your idea of veganism and what you were
showing to your mom
was you standing by the side of the road
holding a protest
slogan on a cardboard sign
or maybe even getting yourself arrested
or throwing
cans of red paint on people wearing fur
coats and again maybe you weren't doing
that yourself maybe maybe your sister
maybe it wasn't that your mom actually
saw
you know photographs of you doing these
kind of produce but maybe those were the
photographs she saw in the newspaper and
when you said that you were vegan when
you said that you cared about animal
rights in her mind
she thinks of you as one of those people
with red paint one of those people it's
almost
and you're saying no no look at me now
look at me
coming on youtube or look at me on
instagram having so much fun
and having all these followers having
this this popularity right you see it's
not
it's not just egomania right there's
also a kind of
pathos there in the full sense of the
term there is a pathetic
grandeur to it you know
um
people who have a lot of friends make a
lot of excuses
i don't have a lot of friends i don't
make
a lot of excuses for the people in my
life
and if our positions were reversed
i want them to treat me the same way
myself i don't want
other people to make excuses for me
i don't want them to reinforce my bad
habits
or conceal my ignorance or my bad
decisions
you know it may hurt
it may sting it may it may just
inconvenience you
slightly to have someone point out that
you're
talking about something you haven't
really read a single book about that you
really don't know
what you're talking about whether they
point that out to you through the most
genteel socratic method imaginable or
through the most
abrupt and intimate approach
the type of reproach only a close friend
can get away with
right your friends can put you in check
your friends can call you into question
your friends can urge you to stop and
reflect and question
yourself you know i
expect and i hope for my friends to
treat me
exactly the same way i treat them and if
they did
i would value it so much
all right i don't have a lot of friends
because i don't make excuses for people
all right and i live my own life in a
very uncompromising way
where i don't make excuses
for myself
i've known this guy vegan foot soldier
for many years and i'd given up
speaking to him many years ago
but you know i'm writing a book this
book began
in the year 2020 when there were race
riots
in the streets of america burning down
whole city blocks
looting and pillaging you know in the
united states of america
and the book is now being finished in
the year 2021
the book reflects a lot of research i've
done
some of it honestly some of it more than
20 years ago
but some of it recently some of it just
for the book some of it just in the
months
writing the book you know and
inexorably and inevitably
the book deals with america's unique
politics of the double divide
between european colonists
and the indigenous people and then
between the european colonists
and the descendants of african slaves
so you know
i was astonished to hear this british
guy
vegans the foot soldier make a youtube
video
in which he so crudely
and so recklessly
stumbled through the history of the
segregation
and desegregation of schools
in the united states of america when he
talked about
affirmative action it's uniquely
american idiom
what does affirmative action mean if
you're japanese or you know from any
other culture
he dealt with what could be simply
called
the long tail of the abolition of
slavery
in the united states america because
when americans abolished slavery
they didn't pass a law saying that the
bank
has to give a loan to black people and
white people equally they didn't pass a
law
saying that a suburban property
development
corporation has to be willing to sell or
rent
a house to black people white people
equally when they abolish slavery
all they did was transfer the slave
economy to a share cropping economy and
leave all of the fundamental questions
of how people would live together
unanswered they didn't answer the
question of how black people would get
education
they didn't ask the question of how
black people would become doctors and
dentists
and whether or not white people would
have the right to refuse a black doctor
just because he was black
or whether or not a school would be able
to refuse a black medical student
because it was black and vice versa
whether or not black people are going to
be able to exclude whites
whether or not you continue to pursue
having two separate but unequal
societies or whether you would actually
pursue integration of those societies
desegregation okay so it's it's
see history that means a lot to me
honestly because of how it relates to
other
chapters of history you know i'm not
american it's not it's not my history
it's not but i have literally sat down
with well-intentioned cambodian
and laotian people
who thought that whites were the
indigenous population of australia
and who were asking me how the black
people got there
all right i have had to explain our
history
in the sense of the british empire the
british empire includes canada the
united states australia new zealand
i have had to explain our history of
slavery and genocide
to laotian people cambodian people
thai people chinese people i've had
those conversations with chinese also
and you know what i've come back to
canada
and i've had to discuss it with
canadians
who are often even worse off
than the lotions and cambodians in their
ignorance
the people of southeast asia even though
they were often
so ignorant of geography that they
literally thought the world
wrapped around in such a way that
australia
was adjacent to england like
playing the game pac-man you can go off
the screen on one end and pop on the
other thought like oh yeah it's a real
quick trip between australia and england
right
that's why white people were the
indigenous population of australia
people at
that level of ignorance at least they
didn't have the false
sense of certainty that white canadians
had
and frankly that white people from
england had in looking back
at this history of slavery and genocide
you know because most of these people
whether they're english
canadian or are white americans the main
thing they live with is the moral
certainty
that they did nothing wrong and they
have nothing to apologize for
that is the primary fact that's the
primary conviction
and all the other facts are made to fit
into place
relative to it
i remember i had a white australian guy
and i was very rare i was staying at his
apartment
my whole life i know how many times i'm
just you know it's incredibly rare that
i had a friend invite me to sleep at
their apartments incredibly rare
but it might be the only time i've slept
in somebody else's apartment you know
i'm not
not getting childhood or something you
know as an adult and that guy is not a
friend of mine today
we now haven't talked to many years we
were friends then and
now we have been friends for many many
years maybe i was
maybe i was a little too honest memory
was a white australian
and in talking about this issue of
indigenous people and genocide and
slavery
i remember he said well you know what my
perspective is on it
i look at it this way there was a war
and we won
he was a very wealthy australian i know
i'm not doing his accent justice
but he was actually from the social
class in australia who have an accent
much closer to english than australia
forgive the poor accent work on this
channel i should definitely hire an
intern to be my accent coach
that would really improve the quality of
the broadcast
and i had the same conversation i had
with him
that i had with my boss at a particular
job
who was german he was 100 years old
so he was connected i mean his mother
had been a nazi he grew up
in the shadow and the aftermath of world
war ii
you know i had this completely parallel
conversation with this white australian
guy to what i am with this
white german guy i said
at the end of world war ii
we won what did we do
to the germans
why did you treat
the indigenous people of australia
so much worse than the nazis
when i had that conversation
with my boss let's say it was
approximately 100 years old
exactly the same thing but i was saying
why do you think we didn't commit
genocide against
you
and when you really get into it
what all these people believe is that
the victims of history
deserved it that they deserve to be
victims that whoever lost the war
that whoever god conquered deserve to be
conquered that's their
that's their worldview you know um
and you can draw that out through
socratic dialogue
anyway foot soldier made this video
you've already heard his excuse that it
was supposedly a very light-hearted
spontaneous video that he did in an
unscripted way unlike my videos right
as as if i wouldn't know a thing or two
about doing
unscripted spontaneous unedited videos
about important political
topics
and you know what really got to me to
hear this
white british guy and he's very wealthy
he is he basically identifies as a
millionaire he talks about his own
financial status to hear him running
roughshod over those
facts and you know
in our culture we had a broken concept
of humility we had christian humility
christian humility makes no sense and
i'm completely happy to discard it and
move on
christian humility is of no interest to
me but we need to replace
christian humility with a much more
dynamic much more profound much more
meaningful
notion of humility
there's a kind of humility that leads
someone to pause
before making a pronouncement about a
subject they've never read a book about
that they've never even read a wikipedia
article about that they have to maybe go
and do some fact checking and reflecting
about
you know it's a different kind of
humility i feel that that's holding
yourself to a higher standard
that's holding yourself to a standard of
intellectual accountability credibility
you know when you turn on the news you
expect the person sitting in front of
the camera
to have made the effort to at least fact
check to at least reflect on to at least
consult a wikipedia article
to have done some level of reading and
background checking and research before
making their pronouncements before
presenting you
with their conclusions and the
broadcasters you see on television
may fail to live up to this expectation
but i'm saying hold yourself to even
higher
expectations that kind of humility
that's what i'm really interested in
so i wrote to this guy after watching
this video
vegan foot soldier title of the email is
what was the last
book you actually read on any of these
topics
have you ever read a single book dealing
with america's history
of segregated education do you have
any idea what the so-called libertarian
and interco-capitalist talking points
you're paraphrasing
really mean think about how much
or how little respect you'd have for
another youtube channel
that weighed in on similarly tremendous
political issues
without doing any reading without doing
any research
whatsoever
you have the time you have the money
you can do better
why is my video about the central park
five
better than the videos by the young
turks and a thousand other youtube
channels
because i did the reading i actually
read
the police reports etc
i can say the same thing about my video
on althea bernstein
nobody else read the actual police
reports
i'll just pause to note those are both
examples of
youtube videos that are shadow banned on
my channel
so when i search within my channel for
the name althea bernstein
i can't get the link to that video um
they were important interesting videos i
made that reflected
hours of real research not days
not weeks you know
some number of hours
maybe about two days worth of work on
each of those videos two days each
i continue this isn't about
wit or charm or good intentions
it's about actively doing the research
and then presenting an informed opinion
there is a book you can buy it on amazon
there's a there's a 160 page book
on the political history of modern syria
by david w
lesch
do you have what it takes to read a 160
page book
and then make a youtube video in
response to it
really think about what a reasonable
standard that is to live
up to if you want to make a video
presenting your so-called conclusion on
racial segregation and integration in
the united states of america
a solid 160 pages of reading
might be a good start especially
considering
that you have never lived with that
political history and cultural context
i.e you are much more alien to the
united states of america
than i am to cambodia even if you're
united
with it by a common language
and the last sentence that email is you
are choosing to be stupid it's a choice
that you're making
again and again and again
something comes up every so often
frankly just in conversations with my
girlfriend
there's there's been this thing lately
coronavirus
face to face i've had that many
conversations anyone else in the last
year
year and a half but you know
this kind of discourse i engage with
other people
it doesn't come from a place of
hopelessness
it doesn't come from a sense of
resignation
or frustration with people's stupidity
it's very much on the basis of hope and
optimism
why would i bother saying this to
someone it's because i think they can do
better
even the phrasing of that last sentence
like
you're choosing to be stupid this is a
choice that you're making again and
again
i'm not saying that you are stupid in
the same sense that a rock
is either black or gray or marble
oh like it's not something
immutable and unchanging on this earth
right you choose to live the way stupid
people live
so you think the way stupid people think
and you act the way stupid people act
and you talk the way stupid people talk
and the process becomes the product
after so many years guess what now you
are
a stupid person in effect but yeah i
have a relentless sense of optimism that
people can change
that people can improve and the people
who can't
people who are you know so mentally
disabled
that they can't and i've mentioned this
a million times i have one
half brother who is so mentally disabled
he can't
say a single word in any language he
can't speak english he can't speak any
secondly i've studied many languages you
probably know this about me well
guess what somebody who shares a whole
lot of my dna
can't even say can't even say a single
sentence in the alignment's whole life
is that severely mentally [ __ ]
there are people who are so mentally
disabled
that they can't improve right but then
you know i would never send someone like
that this kind of email
i'd never reach out to them this way
okay
there are probably some people watching
this video now
who used to be my friends and aren't
anymore not that many of you
maybe five maybe ten but you know what i
can think of a few people
i i remember a certain filmmaker a
certain vegan filmmaker
who was close friends with me on and off
over the years kind of
close friends for one period then we
didn't talk for a while then we started
talking in a few years there
he stopped talking to me because i i put
a really honest
review of his movie on youtube it's full
of what i think of as really useful in
constructive criticism and i don't know
he might not be able to imagine
that i would really value a friend of
mine
offering a critique offering an analysis
offering a review of my movie
you know in the same way i think it's
possible there will be a few people
watching this video now
who were friends of mine in the past and
stopped talking to me
or blocked me or whatever because
there's some kind of really honest
interchange of this i'm telling you you
may not be able to perceive it as such
you may not have the detachment what
have you
but this is me reaching out to you
positively
and if you think about the wording i
used here it's possible
to respond positively also if you have
the humility to do it right
the oh the title of the email what was
the last book
you actually read on this topic
you can have a constructive conversation
about that
like you know maybe there is an answer
maybe the person oh you know what i just
finished reading this one book
and i guess maybe it influenced me a lot
and that's why i said the things in the
video
oh you know what's your perspective on
that do you think i was leaning too far
with you could have a productive
conversation if you had read a book
you could also have a productive
conversation if you could be honest
about it you really haven't read
anything about it
you could have the humility to say you
know what you're right
you know what i guess really what i'm
saying here really just does reflect
something i'd
i'd vaguely heard other people talking
about the internet what what is the
source you know
whatever it is when you reflect on it
where is this where is this coming from
right you could reply by actually having
a constructive and friendly
conversation and you could reply if you
had it in you if you had the humility
to say you know what this is really
harsh but you're right i did not do
160 pages of reading before
making youtube doing this and guys
you know um
[Music]
i've ordered a 160 page book about the
political history of syria
in the mail there's a reason
why i haven't been making youtube videos
talking about the politics of syria
[Laughter]
what was the video i did one video about
the politics
of chile in south america that was so
many hours of research that video
you know if i put my name on it if i
sign my name to it you know there's
something to back it up
and i make mistakes and sometimes i'm
wrong but i learn from my mistakes
because they're mistakes being made in a
process of active
research of sincere open-minded
learning right
here's the reply from vegan foot soldier
it was sent to me just seven hours ago
you are unhinged and you are also
wrong
admittedly strong opening
i don't feel there was anything unhinged
in my email but
not only do you falsely accuse me of
having not read
any books on relevant topics you are
digging
too deep into an impromptu unscripted
almost entirely unedited video that i
made
whilst running through a forest lol
shall i do that
we're talking about genocide
we're talking about slavery
we're talking about things that really
matter
to people of substance foot soldier
all right
glad you had a little laugh all right
for some of us this is political history
we really live with
we really live with the consequences of
this history of slavery and genocide
every day and some of us
know just how little we can do
to make it better because we've tried
you're rich you're idle
why don't you learn cree why don't you
learn ojibwe
why don't you do humanitarian work in
cambodia
why don't you actually get out and prove
the worth of your philosophy to address
the problems
african-americans have today and having
access to education
to stick with this narrow exam
i think there's an answer to that
question photo
i think the answer is
really built into the fact that you
think this is a laughing matter
do you think there's a sign for you to
chortle
if you cannot understand that then there
is no
hope for you fyi in terms of capitalism
i've read miese rothbard friedman
emma friedman hop hayek hazlitt and
sowell
mostly primary but also secondary
literature this is a long paragraph
this is a long paragraph from someone
who is not ashamed to cite
friedman father and son marie rothbard
and hop spelled h-o-p-p-e yeah i
i correctly interpreted the problem with
his implicitly racist
rant when i said that what he
was presenting were libertarian
and anarcho-capitalist talking points i
asked do you
have any idea what the so-called
libertarian and enter capitalist talking
points are paraphrasing
really mean i still don't know if he
realizes what they really mean but what
he's indicating here is that he has been
precisely reading
the kind of racist right-wing
libertarian critique
of the american history of education
meaning
the critique of affirmative action
integration
busing as it was called attempts to get
black people
equal access to education in a
tremendously unequal
social context
in terms of discrimination slavery and
american history etc
i'm a fan of soel having just finished
wealth poverty and politics and
international perspective
which is part of a continuum of his
writings along with
race and economics and black rednecks
and white liberals
yeah if you don't know who sowell is he
is the darling
of people who are not afraid to boast
that they read marie rothbard
that's that's who that's whose soul is i
think it's thomas sowell
sorry i might be getting his first name
wrong yeah
another interesting read recently was d
friedman's
legal systems very different from ours
which is also tangentially related to
the video i made
maybe also enlightenment now by pinker
stephen finger see stephen pinker
contributor to the so-called race and iq
debate
yes i'm seeing i'm seeing the rich
tapestry of the intellectual sources
you're working from there
and i notice you're not actually
answering the questions that i put to
you
and i understand they're challenging i
understand you may even find those
questions
insulting but if you'd answered them if
you'd actually talked about what it is
he's read
conversation could go differently should
i keep
should i keep reading this list of books
he's boasting of i guess i've got to i'm
in faire's fair
on social contract theory i've read
hobbs
locke and rousseau mostly through
secondary literature meaning
he hasn't actually read hobbslock or
russo
he's read what murray rothbard says
about hobbs roblox and rousseau
whitefront
most mostly through secondary literature
yeah have you read buddhist philosophy
well i've read secondary literature well
then you haven't read buddhist
philosophy okay
i use a combination of hobsian and hoppy
in grounding
unironically shouting out harp again
h-o-p-p-e
ah no shame in his game in terms of meta
ethics and normative epic
can't believe i can't believe oh jesus
chris
what kind of dining establishment does
he sit around at eating vegan caviar
and swelling champagne and hanging
around with people
who in this way flagrantly cite hobbes
hop
and oh and emmanuel kant
as the basis of their philosophy i use a
combination of
in terms of meta ethics and normative
ethics i'm a neo-cantian instrumentalist
and i've read extensive secondary
literature on kant
i should say kant let's use the british
pronunciation here
expanding that out i operate within a
weak and shiny and framework
i have read the pi as well as aesthetic
psychology and religious belief
and a good amount of secondary
literature on wittgenstein
and that's just reeling off a bunch of
books and thinkers
i feel relate to that video
okay so
do you feel any of these books are about
the black american experience
do you think wittgenstein's aesthetics
are about the black american experience
are you aware that immanuel kant
not only was racist but basically
invented a new type of racism that was
incredibly influential for the british
empire
look at kant's writing on so-called
anthropology and so on i'm sorry
yes well yes you're being asked about
the american
history of desegregation
right you're telling me you've read kant
and wittgenstein and hop
and murray rothbard and friedman father
was
hmm
[Applause]
i asked you do you realize what the real
meaning is behind these right-wing
libertarian talking points you're
spouting out about education in a form
of action here
maybe maybe he realizes how close he's
coming to
the american white supremacist tradition
and maybe he doesn't maybe he has no
idea
what toys he's kind of playing with here
we're gonna type
i'm not sure what gives you the
impression that i haven't read any books
i've generally read at least one book a
month for the last 10 years
this is not as much as some people and
it's maybe not as much as you
but that's more than zero
you say you're not sure what gives me
the impression
that you haven't read any books but
that's exactly what i told you
right i told you exactly what it is that
when watching that video
makes me feel shocked that you're coming
in and making a statement something
you've never read 160 pages all right
and i know i know you might not care i
know it's not
your history of slavery and genocide and
racism and the failure of the education
system
to the same extent that it's my history
i know
i know you have i know but when i'm
talking about those same issues
whether it is in cambodia or whether it
is in india
some country some distant culture we
talk about
unbelievable atrocities in the history
of china here we talk about listening
yeah you know what i have a commitment
to a certain level of intellectual
integrity
i care i try to take those people
suffering and those people's tragedy and
make it my own
and speak from you know frankly our
shared humanity
okay
i talk about mass murder in russia with
more sensitivity
than you talk about it in the united
states of america
you know
if you are such a powerhouse on
economics and ethics
why don't you debate me on the topic i'm
guessing you won't
because you would rather send me stupid
emails telling me to never
we should lean into the british accent
stupid
i'm guessing you won't because you would
rather send me stupid email
stupid emails telling me to never talk
to you again
and then making 60 minute rants about me
from the safety of your
censored channel stupid stupid emails
he asks why don't you debate me on the
topic
question mark all right let's let's
pretend
we're dealing with someone who's you
know an intelligent person acting in
good faith
you know why i wouldn't debate you on
the topic because you haven't read 160
pages about it
okay you know what's a great topic for
debate
native american universities
did you know that did you know that in
america they still have a segregated
education system for first nations
people indigenous people native american
people
google it right now they got they got
separate universities did you know that
are they the best universities in the
world have you ever been offered a
scholarship
to go to one of them no they're some of
the worst universities in the world
they're some of the worst universities
united states america
native american high schools native
american
universities i'm canadian it's easier
for me to talk about canada
canada's separate education system
for our indigenous people
how do you think that's gone foot
soldier
how do you think that relates to our
history of slavery and genocide
you know one of the reasons to talk
about native americans that way is that
jurisdictionally it's so much more
clear-cut
than the experience of african-americans
black americans you know
with black americans it's a different
story in every state and every town
the reality of what we now call uh
redlining
redlining is a very convenient term it
was great when it was i remember before
this term was used there was one
documentary i think on pbs
uh no it was the the radio station
the left npr there was a documentary on
npr
uh in america and that promoted this
term it's been totally obscure enough
for redlining
and for it's the incredibly complex and
conflict phenomenon
of how black people were denied access
to housing
education and everything else in the
long decades
between the formal end of slavery and
the formal inauguration of
of equality and yeah you know we just
had the first
city in the united states of america pay
reparations
basically today because this week was
just a couple days ago
yeah so there's one city in illinois
and at the municipal level they did the
research and they decided to pay
reparations just
for the racist and oppressive actions
that the city government had done
between 1921 and 1971 their boats maybe
some of that from memory but they had
they'd done repressive and terrible
things
to their to the african-americans there
and
a scholar put together the list of all
the all the things that today would be
considered unconstitutional
immoral and evil that the city
government had done to its own black
people
and they put together a package and said
okay we're going to commit to
reparations
but you know with canada the way we
treated our
indigenous people was orchestrated at a
federal level
that's broadly speaking through the
united states also so it's easier to
generalize about
as one education system or one policy
or one strategy even you know
but yeah um
[Music]
you know it's heartbreaking research to
do
and it's heartbreaking to live with the
knowledge that
no debate on youtube is going to make
even the slightest difference
i referred to before the fact that in
the recent past you know um
there was this optimism amongst vegan
activists that if we could all just
come on camera and have fun or go to the
beach and films ourselves film ourselves
running around the beach
that just the ebullient joy
of the activists sharing their lives on
youtube
you know that this was going to change
the world um
[Music]
here in canada our indigenous people
just tore down the statue of queen
victoria
tore down the statue of captain cook
you know there's no hope there's no
optimism
tore down the statue of uh in front of
that university in toronto
ryerson old man ryerson his statue was
torn down
and they started referring to it as
university x
instead of referring to it as ryerson
university attelo can be renamed
you know there's no hope there's no hope
for a better future
you know and um
the cultural devastation
of our native people of our people of
color
of the descendants of african slaves you
know
it has entailed the destruction of our
culture too
their poverty is our poverty
the fact that there is no such thing
as canadian culture or even a canadian
cuisine
or a canadian restaurant in the same way
that there is such a thing as a mexican
restaurant even
reflects the extent to which the british
empire traded in
genocide and of course the genocide was
far
more destructive for the indigenous
people than it was for the colonizers
but in a significant measure it has been
destructive for
us also
and that is why you can drive from coast
to coast in this vast country
and see nothing but one walmart after
another
one 711 after another you know
um
the political failure the institutional
failure the educational failure
and just the the the ins the
intellectual and cultural poverty
of our lives as the colonizing
white people in canada united states
you know compared to
compared to living in poland
okay and i i know the polish take it for
granted
i know they do because i meet those
people and talk to them
after they migrate to canada and they
say that they'd always imagine they'd
have a better life in canada and then
they get to canada they can't believe
how bleak and hopeless it is
they can't believe that only now they
realize what they had going for them in
poland that they thought was a hell hole
you know i grew up around immigrants
from
italy from oh korea korea is a great
example
people have moved from south korea to
canada and only only after they get
there
after years they start to realize whoa
you know they move from a place
south korea where the indigenous people
are korean
and they were moving to a place where
the indigenous people were exterminated
and what have you got here not even a
second-rate imitation
of european culture you know painted
over
the tombstones of our native people and
sure it would be it would be a long
more complex statement to say how you
know the slavery of of africans fits
into that process
it can't be that can't be quite so
easily reduced to uh
you know a set of symbols on a
chalkboard
all right but you know it's completely
asymmetrical it's completely
unequal it's completely horrifying but
sure
our devastation of them has devastated
us as well
our brutalization of them
it's left us with an empire that's not
worth fighting for
it's left us with the constitution
nobody believes in it's left us with the
laws that
nobody wants to uphold
there is nobody in canada who feels
proud
of the statue of queen victoria that was
just torn down
you know um
and you know i know the other side of it
too
in the same way that i can say i've
talked to italian immigrants
who are expecting life in canada i've
spoken to immigrants from india pakistan
so much the world who are expecting a
better life for canada and were
horrified when they when they didn't
find it
the bitterest irony of all is to talk to
our own indigenous people who
lived in terrible conditions within this
country and they always assumed their
lives would be so much better
if only they could move to toronto if
only they could study at the university
of toronto with the wealthy white people
and then they get there and they realize
what an abysmally low level of education
all the wealthy white people have
like they grew up in deprived
circumstances imagining
that you know our culture in the
affluent city
was so much better off than theirs and
that our level of education our level of
enlightenment
and guess what they went from one
depressing dead end alcoholic culture to
another
guess what you know you moved to toronto
and you're also surrounded by
you know depressed alcoholics who have
no culture and no
sense of of ambition and motivation and
aspiration
for a better life you know you are
staring at the mirror image
of your own destroyed indigenous culture
these are the people who destroyed it
and you start to figure out the extent
to which
the the defects of the two cultures and
once
really briefly i want to get back to
this but you know um
several times i spoke to first nations
people who complained to me that their
own community was
full of alcoholics meaning reservation
or otherwise one of these
talents that's 90 native people
and um what i would say back to them
with socratic method was
tell me tell me about the nearest white
town
you know so down whatever down the
highway is the next
white people settlement and all the
problems they were complaining about
in their own community i said when you
go to that white
majority town or 100 white town just
down the street
tell me do you see do you see the same
problems you know
i always give the example i don't know
if they still do this but in the past in
canada we had a blue
container that would have the bottles
going out for recycling i said you know
and that did you ever walk down the
street
looking at the recycling bins set out
and you see the extent to which all
these houses are full of alcoholics you
know you see all the empty
bottles going to be recycled i know
today today that might not be the case
because they might return the bottles to
get
25 cents i guess that's something that
might be a dated cultural reference
but you know um to a remarkable extent
even though
it's completely asymmetrical but you
know
when you talk to the native people who
manage to make it
in the city you know whether that's
toronto or montreal or vancouver
people who got off the res and move into
the city and then they're horrified
in the same way that the people from
india are horrified when they come here
and the people from italy and even the
people
from poland are horrified right
you know but of course there's a
difference because if you
decided to give up polish culture to
assimilate
into english-speaking canadian culture
you know there still is this place
called poland
where the language and culture continue
okay
there is no place on this earth you can
go back to
to see cree culture intact to see ojibwe
culture
intact you know so when you make that
choice
when you assimilate you know um
you've lost the last shred of that
culture which is now being lost
to the whole world okay
so read again my my final message to
vegan facilitator
you realize i'm saying this after
quoting back his excuse
that i'm supposedly digging too deeply
into what was an impromptu unscripted
almost entirely edited video
you realize that every single video
you've seen on my channel the last four
years
was impromptu unscripted and almost
entirely inedited
a huge number are completely unedited
there are a single continuous take
including of course innumerable hours of
livestream
when i speak unscripted i
say things a real substance
because i am a person of real substance
you aren't
you're fatuous you're comfortable
get uncomfortable
do research hold yourself
to a higher standard
you know that phrase journalistic
integrity
have something better have intellectual